# Unity-FlappyBird
Flappy Bird game built on Unity engine
This document will provide a brief discussion of various steps involved in implementation. Firstly, I created different stripes to be used in the game. The bird stripe had three bird states and I used sprite editor to splice it into three different sprites.
After having all the sprites in place, I then added the RigidBody 2D, Polygon Collider 2D and an Animator. The animator was used to render different bird sprites between different states. Then, I attached a bird script with which I handled the different components and also added force for the bird to fly and give it a dead state on collision. The animations can now also be managed with the bird script attached to the bird sprite instead of just handling it via Animator to see how the bird changes in different states. The Animator I used here, has three states: Idle, Flap and Die. The bird moves between these 3 states. So, from Entry state, the bird goes into Idle state. From Idle state, the bird can go either into the Flap state or the Die state. Die state cannot return into any other state, where bird can go into idle from flap state. 
Next, I built a score text UI and a GameOver UI. The GameOver UI has a child component which is the Restart Button. As the name suggests, these are the simple components to display score and game over text when the bird collides. The restart button allows the user to play again by clicking the restart button by calling the OnClick() method which runs the “Restart.cs” script.Then, I added the Game Controller. The game controller has a reference to the score text and will increment score on each successful pass through a column and also activates the game over text when the bird dies.
After, building all these components I can see that the bird flaps its wings and flies beyond our background object. So, I create scrolling and repeating backgrounds. To do that, I created a copy of my ground sprite and aligned it right next to my first sprite. We attach the “ScrollingObject.cs” and “RepeatingBackground.cs” script to our ground. The ground has a RigidBody 2D component with type set to as Kinematic and we provide a velocity from our scrolling object. This gives an illusion that the bird is moving ahead while I move my background in the reverse direction. The RepeatingBackground script provides the functionality of using the same background again by checking if the object is visible or not and is safe to repeat again. We also reposition our background and set its parameters here in this object. 
Now, I have a flying bird with repeating background which dies upon colliding with the ground.
Well, it’s certainly no fun without obstacles. So, next I will add columns/pipes as obstacles for the bird. The score increments if the bird does not collide with the columns. But these columns should be randomly spawned across the path. To do this, I first added one single column and added a trigger which allows me to increment score on a successful pass. 
On running it in game mode, I found that it works. But to have it randomly spawned across I used object pooling. For this I created a “ColumnPool” which controls the maximum and minimum value on y-axis for the columns. It also has a spawn rate which tells how quickly the columns will spawn. I also made an array of GameObject called columns with the size of how many columns I want in a pool. After initialization of columns, I loop through each of them and create individual columns. The Update () method, makes the columns spawn as long as the game is running. If the time since last spawn is greater than the spawn rate, then I calculate a new random y position and set the current column to that position increasing the value of currentColumn and setting it to zero if the size is too big. 
Now, I saw that if I press Space button continuously then the bird flies beyond the view. The document specified that in such scenario, the bird will die. To do that I used Unity’s “OnBecameInvisible()” method. This sets the velocity to zero and marks bird dead. 
With regards to the future scope, I can add a functionality to keep track of high score. I will add sound effects to give a better experience and a menu with various setting the user can choose from, like – background against which the bird flies, the different bird options and the difficulty level.
This would give a user options and also a great experience.
Hope you enjoy playing this game!!
